[Infrastructure] LocalNet on Kubernetes (#354)
pokt-network/pocket: build/localnet/README.md

# Kubernetes LocalNet <!-- omit in toc -->

> This guide shows how to deploy a LocalNet using [pocket-operator](https://github.com/pokt-network/pocket-operator).

Reviewer: @okdas I updated most of this file while testing so please review.

Author: Looks good, I also added some changes (mostly requested ones). Please lmk if you have questions.

### Enabling Kubernetes

You may need to manually enable Kubernetes if using Docker desktop:

![Docker desktop kubernetes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1892194/216165581-1372e2b8-c630-4211-8ced-5ec59b129330.png)

## LocalNet

### Starting LocalNet

```bash
make localnet_up
```

### Viewing Logs

The developer can then view logs either from a browser or terminal.

### Terminal Logs

- `make localnet_logs_validators` - shows prior logs
- `make localnet_logs_validators_follow` - shows prior logs and follows the new log lines as validators do their work

### Tilt Web UI Logs

- Pressing `space` in terminal where you started `tilt`
- Go to [localhost:10350](http://localhost:10350/)

![tilt UI](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1892194/216165833-b9e5a98c-87a8-4355-87c9-0420a8a598bf.png)

### Scaling Actors

When starting a k8s LocalNet, `localnet_config.yaml` is generated (with default configs) in the root of the repo if doesn't already exist.

The config file can be modified to scale the number of actors up/down. As long as `localnet_up` is running, the changes should be automatically applied within seconds.

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a GIF or video here?

Author: uploading it here, will include in readme file.

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4950477/216490690-8ac4c16a-25e1-4202-b2e5-03215030c82c.mp4

Author: I don't think there's a way to embed videos in readme, huh..

Tilt continuously monitors files on local filesystem, and it rebuilds the binary and distributes it to the pods on every code change. This allows developers to iterate on the code and see the changes immediately.

## Troubleshooting

### Why?

Developers might experience issues with running LocalNet on Kubernetes.

Issues might be related to the fact different developers run different clusters/OS/environments.

Machines going to sleep and that might not play well with virtual machines, postgres or pocket client.

### Force Trigger an Update

Visit the tilt web UI by pressing `space` in the shell where you started tilt or by visiting [this webpage](http://localhost:10350/).

If you see any errors, you can click `Trigger Update` on a resource that has issues to restart the service or retry a command.

### Force Restart

If force triggering an update didn't work, try the following:

1. `make localnet_down`
2. `make localnet_up`

### Full Cleanup

If a force restart didn't help, try rebuilding local kubernetes cluster using the tool you're managing your cluster with (e.g. Docker Desktop, Rancher Desktop, k3s, k3d, minikube, etc).

### Docker Desktop

> # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT

Reviewer: Can you please update this based on our offline conversation?

Author: What exactly do you want to see here? Docker Desktop, as any other software, might not work (frankly, I was never happy with it on mac). If you don't want to troubleshoot issues, you can resort to other software.

In this readme file, I included a list of distributions I've tested this LocalNet on, linked a page on tilt.dev website describing all possible options (basically - any cluster/distribution will work, as long as Kubernetes is available).

## How to change configuration files

Currently, we provide [a config file](./configs.yaml) that is shared between all validators and a pocket client. We make use of `pocket` client feature that allows us to override configuration via environment variables. You can look at [one of the validators](../../build/localnet/v1-validator1.yaml) as a reference.

## Code Structure

```bash

> build/localnet # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT

Reviewer: @okdas please update the `TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT` comments

├── README.md # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
├── cli-client.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
├── configs.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
├── dependencies # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   ├── Chart.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   ├── dashboards # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   │   ├── README.md # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   │   └── raintree-telemetry-graphs.json # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   ├── requirements.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   ├── templates # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   │   ├── _helpers.tpl # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   │   ├── dashboards.yml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   │   └── datasources.yml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
│   └── values.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
├── network.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
├── private-keys.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT
├── v1-validator-template.sh # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT

> └── v1-validator-template.yaml # TODO_IN_THIS_COMMIT

Author: They belong to different dirs, so I suggested a different structure, please check this file again.

The config file can be modified to scale the number of actors up/down. As long as `localnet_up` is running, the changes should be automatically applied within seconds.

[Watch demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4950477/216490690-8ac4c16a-25e1-4202-b2e5-03215030c82c.mp4)

![Watch demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4950477/216490690-8ac4c16a-25e1-4202-b2e5-03215030c82c.mp4)

> 

Author: It actually looks nice on the github markdown preview! You have a video and a link. But yeah, we can remove it.

make localnet_client_debug
```

### Addresses and keys on LocalNet

> You can find private keys and addresses for all actors in the [private-keys.yaml](./manifests/private-keys.yaml) file. They have been pre-generated and follow a specific pattern - they start with pre-determined numbers for easier troubleshooting and debugging.

Author: I did, it is described in private-keys.yaml file.

You can find private keys and addresses for all actors in the [private-keys.yaml](./manifests/private-keys.yaml) file. They have been pre-generated and follow a specific pattern - they start with pre-determined numbers for easier troubleshooting and debugging.

Addresses begin with `YYYXX` number, where `YYY` is a number of an actor and `XX` is [a type of actor](../../shared/core/types/proto/actor.proto#L7). For example:
*  `420043b854e78f2d5f03895bba9ef16972913320` is a validator #420.
*  `66603bc4082281b7de23001ffd237da62c66a839` is a fisherperson #666.

> *  `0010297b55fc9278e4be4f1bcfe52bf9bd0443f8` is a service node (a servicer) #001.

Reviewer: Just FYI: We're going to rename all `Service Node` like instances to `Servicer` soon

You can find private keys and addresses for all actors in the [private-keys.yaml](./manifests/private-keys.yaml) file. They have been pre-generated and follow a specific pattern - they start with pre-determined numbers for easier troubleshooting and debugging.

> Addresses begin with `YYYXX` number, where `YYY` is a number of an actor and `XX` is [a type of actor](../../shared/core/types/proto/actor.proto#L7). For example:
> *  `420043b854e78f2d5f03895bba9ef16972913320` is a validator #420.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addresses begin with `YYYXX` number, where `YYY` is a number of an actor and `XX` is [a type of actor](../../shared/core/types/proto/actor.proto#L7).

The current mapping for `XX` is:
* `01` - Application
* `02` - Servicer
* `03` - Fisherman
* `04` - Validator

For example:
*  `420043b854e78f2d5f03895bba9ef16972913320` is a validator #420.
```

│   │   ├── README.md # README file with instructions on how to add a new dashboard
│   │   └── raintree-telemetry-graphs.json # Raintree Telemetry dashboard
│   ├── requirements.yaml # Specifies dependencies of the chart, this allows us to install all the dependencies with a single command
│   ├── templates # Additional Kubernetes manifests that we need to connect different dependencies together
│   │   ├── _helpers.tpl
│   │   ├── dashboards.yml
│   │   └── datasources.yml
│   └── values.yaml # Configuration values that override the default values of the dependencies, this allows us to connect dependencies together and make them available to our LocalNet services
├── manifests # Static YAML Kubernetes manifests that are consumed by `tilt`
│   ├── cli-client.yaml # Pod that has the latest binary of the pocket client. Makefile targets run CLI in this pod.
│   ├── configs.yaml # Location of the config files (default configs for all validators and a genesis file) that are shared between all actors
│   ├── network.yaml # Networking configuration that is shared between different actors, currently a Service that points to all validators

> │   └── private-keys.yaml # Pre-generated private keys for everything

Reviewer: ```suggestion
│   └── private-keys.yaml # Pre-generated private keys with a semantic format for easier development
```
